today main objective.

1. 3 programs which are  some kind of an architecture.
array program
task program
Employee program

programmer should know how to convert english into functions and variables fitting
into an architecture.


we have a country scenario.. ghost ... nice english no details.

country means cityname,areaname and pincode.

1. add a country information
2. change country information.. cityname and areaname..
we can change cityname and areaname but not pincode.
3. if we give cityname. we should get all the area and pincodes..
4. if we give pincode, it should tell cityname and areaname.
5. sort 
	5.1 cityname
	5.2 areaname
	5.3 pincode
0. exit

shoudl work with database..

I am not comfortable with model. you write down this in notepad
define. what is meaning of not comfortable and paste it in teh chat window.

comfortable with model means.

1. we will write a class. we will think what variables to write in the class.
2. we will create an object.
3. wherever we have the object with us, we will access the variables present in the class
or functons present in the class.
doing 1 to 3. is called being 5/5 with model

I am 5/5 in variables..
1. think of operations.
2. I will pick up the data type
3. use it..
3.1 create it.
3.2 is operate on it.. 1.



anybody who is talking about http for ( makeup .. presenatation, cover on the service function)



look we have account scenario .. model became an account
Account .. accountno, pin. balance.
Item, 	

1. accountno, you should give account details..


does not thing is more pathetic and irritating then people who write poems..
in name of programs..

Database skills is  a separate skill.. but different story that there is shortage of stupid
people who expect all skills to be present in the same person...

we can learn some databse skills may be 2/5 ... that is optimistic number..

so called full stack 
presentation 2.5/5
service and model (5/5)
databsae 2/5
cloud tools and other tools related to project (1/5)

if you see a person who puts equal effort in a "system" 100% funeral guranteed.

never learn this disease of creating tables from the programming language..


what is rhyming word for rules.. answer is fools.
people who become fan of rules, are fools..

all rules are guideliness.. that means we can violate them provided we give
a reason why we violated.. violating rules for fun is "carelessness" 
how will a kid think , If i learn all the rules then I can do good design, that is because
this guy is a kid...

table called emp, empno, empname and deptid.

to put some rows into the table.. what is sql command we use..

insert 
when does insert command fail.
1. constraint violation.. in all other cases, it means programmer was in comma state.
2. update and delete command can fail in two circumstances..
2.1 constraint violation.
2.2 where condition fails..
3. select command.
3.1 single select if we do query on primary key you will get one row
3.2 multi select  if we do query on  non primary key we should multiple rows.

4. DTL , commit and rollback.. 
commit will make things permanent
rollback will undo things..
think of insert,update.. and never of DDL commands like creation of tables, alter of tables
dropping of tables..





update emp set deptid=4, location='abc' where empno=3





people who dont respect theory deserve suffering and they should use
the word "science"


trigger in database..
some event in the database.. if we isnerted some row or we chaned some row
automatically something should ahppen.. that is called as trigger.

what all things I should in databse..
1. databse
2. table.
3. constraint.. primary key, foreign key, check.
4. insert, update and select.
5. trigger.

in our case.. we want to practice, insert, update, delete(extremely freaky), single select
,multi select

in each of the command we should think how success looks like how failure looks like.
we should be 100% sure about success and failure.. 

update command 
update table set columname=newvalue, anothercoluname=newvalue where column=what


select command
select * from tablename where columname=somecondition.

All this syntax not worth byhearting once. also .. 
in my project what will happen. tell the team hey show me your database code
I want to have a look at it

recognize how insert is done
how update is done
how select is done
and then immitate it.. that is good strategy than going to google and doing phd on
databsae..pathetic..
suppose team member tells I wont show you, you should do it on your own.. ok
we can do it.. but then team memeber should not tell later on why you did like this
I know other away.. then lock the door and give treatment to team member..

code style.

1. get in touch with database.
sqliteConnection = sqlite3.connect('test.db')  //this line is responsible for connecting
to the databse..

x=[]
x.sort()

x={}
y=x.values()





2. look for failure.
3. have your sql command .. values should come dynamically..
4. issue your sql command.
5. look for failure or success.
6. close the communication with databse..



we are writing a sql command..

we are trying update command


fillupqestionmarks=(33,1)
string sql = update item set itemprice=? where itemno=?
cursor.execute(sql_update_query, fillupquestionamrks)
when itemno is not found, it will never result in an exception.

	










first set of assingments is 

no architecture..

2. a27xx.py to a29xx.py ensure you run it in your system and prove it works
without making changes..  so it will not run.. emp table and test.db is not there
create it.. where in same folder as the .py file as of now.. so learn how to use
DBBrowser, 
3. change the donkey
emp.
Item (itemno-int, itemname-string, price-int,category-string)
1. insert
2. update price and itemname.
3. select for item based on itemno
based on category
4. Task (taskId, taskname, priority)
1. insert
2. update taskname and priority
3. select based on taskid
4. select based on priority.

11.43 to 12.04 .. and join back..
Keep your bp level normal... when to increase bp level if you cant write yesterday
assingments..






























when you go near the project, project is always screaming something , what is it screaming

"I will change, I will change"

insert into item(itemno,itmename,price) values (1,'a',3)  //good insert command or a bad insert command.

learn to write columnnmaes with your insert. .if you are using..
bad insert command why...
why tomororw if a new column gets added to the table,, insert command will not
break



































